How to create (relaxed) initial conditions (and start a miluph/miluphcuda simulation run based on them):
23/Feb/2020


x for all possibilities a miluph/miluphcuda executable has to exist already
x for miluphcuda runs (not for miluph) libconfig must be installed for reading the materialconfiguration file
  IMPORTANT: To ensure correct functionality install the latest version:
             1. Download the tar.gz archive from https://hyperrealm.github.io/libconfig
             2. sudo ./configure
             3. sudo make
             4. sudo make install


Possibility I (miluph/miluphcuda): run the initial conditions program manually:
    1. compile the initial conditions program via the Makefile
    2. create a new directory for your simulation
    3. miluph/miluphcuda: copy your input parameter file (usually spheres_ini.input) to that directory
       miluphcuda:        provide a material-configuration file (usually material.cfg) in that directory (the sml will be set automatically!, everything else is your job)
    4. run the initial conditions program (e.g. spheres_ini) with appropriate command line arguments (see the help for details, e.g. ./spheres_ini -?)
       (the output file (typically impact.0000) and the scenario file (only for miluph runs) should usually be placed in the simulation directory)
    5. the initial conditions program generates an output file (typically impact.0000; this will then in turn be the input file for miluph/miluphcuda) and a scenario file (only for miluph runs)
    6. finally start miluph/miluphcuda with the created output file (typically impact.0000) (and the created scenario file in case of miluph runs)


Possibility II (only miluph, not yet including spherical shell setups): use the miluph start script for running both, the initial conditions program and miluph:
    1. compile the initial conditions program via the Makefile
    2. create a new directory for your simulation
    3. copy your input parameter file (named spheres_ini.input) to that directory
    4. set the correct paths and program-names of the initial conditions program and of miluph (at the beginning of the start script)
    5. the miluph command line (options) can be changed in the corresponding line (MILUPHCOMMAND=...) of the start script
    6. run the miluph start script with your desired command line arguments, see the help for details, e.g. ./start_spheres.sh -?


Possibility III (STANDARD WAY, only miluphcuda, not yet including spherical shell setups): use the miluphcuda start script for running both, the initial conditions program and miluphcuda:
    1. compile the initial conditions program via the Makefile
    2. create a new directory for your simulation
    3. copy your input parameter file (named spheres_ini.input) to that directory
    4. copy your materialconfiguration file (usually material.cfg) to that directory - the sml will be set automatically, everything else is your job.
    5. set the correct static paths and parameters at the beginning of the start script
    6. run the miluphcuda start script from your simulation directory (!) without any arguments - the interactive dialogue will guide you through the process!


If you want to do something more complicated, like
    - using an initially spinning projectile/target
    - reading radial profiles of projectile/target from files
    - running miluph instead of miluphcuda
    - etc.
then take a look at './spheres_ini -?' and 'spheres_ini.h'.


For more details on the relaxation procedure and the program see:

C. Burger, T.I. Maindl & C.M. Schäfer (2018). Transfer, loss and physical processing of water in hit-and-run collisions of 
planetary embryos. Celestial Mechanics and Dynamical Astronomy, 130:2. doi: 10.1007/s10569-017-9795-3.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.03669

Please cite this article when using our program.

